Git Basics
==
###### [Index](../index.md) / Git Basics / [2-2 Recording Changes to the Repository](2-2-0.md) / 2-2-4 Committing Your Changes

### 2-2-4 Committing Your Changes

Now that your staging area is set up the way you want it, you can commit your changes. Remember that anything that is still unstaged — any files you have created or modified that you haven’t run `git add` on since you edited them — won’t go into this commit. They will stay as modified files on your disk. In this case, let’s say that the last time you ran git status, you saw that everything was staged, so you’re ready to commit your changes. The simplest way to commit is to type `git commit`:

```
$ git commit
```

Doing so launches your editor of choice (by default it launches Vim editor).

Alternatively, you can type your commit message inline with the commit command by specifying it after a -m flag, like this:

```
$ git commit -m "Story 182: Fix benchmarks for speed"
[master 463dc4f] Story 182: Fix benchmarks for speed
 2 files changed, 2 insertions(+)
 create mode 100644 README
```

Now you’ve created your first commit! You can see that the commit has given you some output about itself: which branch you committed to (`master`), what SHA-1 checksum the commit has (`463dc4f`), how many files were changed, and statistics about lines added and removed in the commit.

Remember that the commit records the snapshot you set up in your staging area. Anything you didn’t stage is still sitting there modified; you can do another commit to add it to your history. Every time you perform a commit, you’re recording a snapshot of your project that you can revert to or compare to later.

**Note :** Always use `-m` flag for faster use

[...Prev Page](2-2-3.md) <--------------> [Next Page...](2-3-0.md)