Git Basics
==
###### [Index](../index.md) / Git Basics / [2-5 Working with Remotes](2-5-0.md) / 2-5-3 Fetching and Pulling from Your Remotes

### 2-5-3 Fetching and Pulling from Your Remotes

As you just saw, to get data from your remote projects, you can run:

```
$ git fetch <remote>
```

The command goes out to that remote project and pulls down all the data from that remote project that you don’t have yet. After you do this, you should have references to all the branches from that remote, which you can merge in or inspect at any time.

If you clone a repository, the command automatically adds that remote repository under the name “origin”. So, `git fetch origin` fetches any new work that has been pushed to that server since you cloned (or last fetched from) it. It’s important to note that the `git fetch` command only downloads the data to your local repository — it doesn’t automatically merge it with any of your work or modify what you’re currently working on. You have to merge it manually into your work when you’re ready.

If your current branch is set up to track a remote branch, you can use the `git pull` command to automatically fetch and then merge that remote branch into your current branch. This may be an easier or more comfortable workflow for you; and by default, the `git clone` command automatically sets up your local master branch to track the remote master branch (or whatever the default branch is called) on the server you cloned from. Running `git pull` generally fetches data from the server you originally cloned from and automatically tries to merge it into the code you’re currently working on.

[...Prev Page](2-5-2.md) <--------------> [Next Page...](2-5-4.md)